README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://fingerprintjs.com">
    <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10922372/126062498-31921b6c-c7fd-47cb-bf85-9e172e08b664.png" alt="FingerprintJS" width="312px" />
  </a>
<p align="center">
<a href="https://github.com/fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react/actions/workflows/release.yml">
  <img src="https://github.com/fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg" alt="CI badge" />
</a>
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react.svg" alt="Current NPM version">
</a>
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react.svg" alt="Monthly downloads from NPM">
</a>
<a href="https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/:license-mit-blue.svg" alt="MIT license">
</a>
<a href="https://discord.gg/39EpE2neBg">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/discord/852099967190433792?style=logo&label=Discord&logo=Discord&logoColor=white" alt="Discord server">
</a>
  
# FingerprintJS Pro React

FingerprintJS Pro React is an easy-to-use React library for <strong>[FingerprintJS Pro](https://fingerprintjs.com/)</strong>. **This package works with FingerprintJS Pro, it is not compatible with [open-source FingerprintJS](https://github.com/fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs).** You can learn more about the difference between FingerprintJS Pro and open-source FingerprintJS in the [official documentation](https://dev.fingerprintjs.com/docs/pro-vs-open-source).

## Table of contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Getting started](#getting-started)
- [Documentation](#documentation)
- [Support and feedback](#support-and-feedback)
- [License](#license)

## Installation

Using [npm](https://npmjs.org):

```sh
npm install @fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react
```

Using [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com):

```sh
yarn add @fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react
```

## Getting started

In order to identify visitors, you'll need a FingerprintJS Pro account (you can [sign up for free](https://dashboard.fingerprintjs.com/signup/)).
You can learn more about API keys in the [official FingerprintJS Pro documentation](https://dev.fingerprintjs.com/docs/quick-start-guide).

1. Wrap your application (or component) in FpjsProvider. You can specify multiple configuration options. \
   Set a region if you have chosen a non-global region during registration. Please refer to [Regions page](https://dev.fingerprintjs.com/docs/regions).
  
```jsx
// src/index.js
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import { FpjsProvider } from '@fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react';
import App from './App';

ReactDOM.render(
  <FpjsProvider
    loadOptions = {{
      apiKey: 'your-fpjs-public-api-key'
    }}
  >
    <App />
  </FpjsProvider>,
  document.getElementById('app')
);
```

2. Use the `useVisitorData` hook in your components to perform visitor identification and get the data. 

```jsx
// src/App.js
import React from 'react';
import { useVisitorData } from '@fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react'

function App() {
  const {
    isLoading,
    error,
    data,
  } = useVisitorData();

  if (isLoading) {
    return <div>Loading...</div>;
  }
  if (error) {
    return <div>An error occured: {error.message}</div>;
  }

  if (data) {
    // perform some logic based on the visitor data
    return (
      <div>
        Welcome {data.visitorFound ? 'back' : ''}!
      </div>
    );
  } else {
    return null;
  }
}

export default App;
```

The `useVisitorData` hook also returns a `getData` method which can make an API call on your command. 

```jsx
// src/App.js
import React, { useState } from 'react';
import { useVisitorData } from '@fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react'

function App() {
  const {
    isLoading,
    error,
    getData,
  } = useVisitorData({tag: 'subscription-form'}, { immediate: false });
  const [email, setEmail] = useState('')

  if (isLoading) {
    return <div>Loading...</div>;
  }
  if (error) {
    return <div>An error occured: {error.message}</div>;
  }

  return (
    <div>
      <form
        onSubmit={(e) => {
          e.preventDefault()
          getData().then((data) => {
            if (data) {
              // do something with the visitor data
              // for example, append visitor data to the form data to send to your server
              console.log(data)
            }
          })
        }}
      >
        <label htmlFor='email'>Email:</label>
        <input
          id='email'
          type='email'
          name='email'
          required
          value={email}
          onChange={(e) => setEmail(e.currentTarget.value)}
        />
        <button type='submit'>Subscribe</button>
      </form>
    </div>
  );
}

export default App;
```

See the full code example in the [examples folder](https://github.com/fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react/tree/main/examples/spa).

## Documentation

This library uses [FingerprintJS Pro agent](https://fingerprintjs.com/github/) internally. The documentation for the FingerprintJS Pro agent is available on https://dev.fingerprintjs.com/docs.

### FpjsProvider props
`loadOptions: FingerprintJS.LoadOptions`

Options for the FingerprintJS JS Pro agent `load()` method. Options follow [agent's initialisation properties](https://dev.fingerprintjs.com/docs/js-agent#agent-initialization).

`cacheLocation?: CacheLocation`

Defines which built-in cache mechanism the client should use. Caching options follow properties defined in [fingerprintjs-pro-spa repository](https://github.com/fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-spa#caching).

`cache?: ICache`

Custom cache implementation. Takes precedence over the `cacheLocation` property. Caching options follow properties defined in [fingerprintjs-pro-spa repository](https://github.com/fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-spa#caching).

`cacheTimeInSeconds?: number`

Duration in seconds for which data is stored in the cache. Cannot exceed 86_400 (24h) because caching data for longer than 24 hours can negatively affect identification accuracy. Caching options follow properties defined in [fingerprintjs-pro-spa repository](https://github.com/fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-spa#caching).

`cachePrefix?: string`

Custom prefix for localStorage and sessionStorage cache keys. Will be ignored if the `cache` is provided. Caching options follow properties defined in [fingerprintjs-pro-spa repository](https://github.com/fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-spa#caching).

### Hooks
`useVisitorData(getOptions, config)`

`useVisitorData` hook performs identification requests with the FingerprintJS Pro API. The returned object contains information about loading status, errors, and [visitor](https://dev.fingerprintjs.com/docs/js-agent#extendedresultac).
- `getOptions: GetOptions<TExtended>` parameter follows parameters of the FingerprintJS Pro's [`get` function](https://dev.fingerprintjs.com/docs/js-agent#parameters-reference).
- `config: UseVisitorDataConfig`'s property `immediate` determines whether the `getData()` method will be called immediately after the hook mounts or not.

## Support and feedback
For support or to provide feedback, please [raise an issue on our issue tracker](https://github.com/fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react/issues). If you require private support, please email us at oss-support@fingerprintjs.com. If you'd like to have a similar React wrapper for the [open-source FingerprintJS](https://github.com/fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs), consider [raising an issue in our issue tracker](https://github.com/fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react/issues).


## License

This project is licensed under the MIT license. See the [LICENSE](https://github.com/fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react/blob/master/LICENSE) file for more info.

Commit message:

docs: add info about caching and describe useVisitorData hook

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://fingerprintjs.com">
    <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10922372/126062498-31921b6c-c7fd-47cb-bf85-9e172e08b664.png" alt="FingerprintJS" width="312px" />
  </a>
<p align="center">
<a href="https://github.com/fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react/actions/workflows/release.yml">
  <img src="https://github.com/fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg" alt="CI badge" />
</a>
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react.svg" alt="Current NPM version">
</a>
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react.svg" alt="Monthly downloads from NPM">
</a>
<a href="https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/:license-mit-blue.svg" alt="MIT license">
</a>
<a href="https://discord.gg/39EpE2neBg">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/discord/852099967190433792?style=logo&label=Discord&logo=Discord&logoColor=white" alt="Discord server">
</a>
  
# FingerprintJS Pro React

FingerprintJS Pro React is an easy-to-use React library for **[FingerprintJS Pro](https://fingerprintjs.com/)**. **This package works with FingerprintJS Pro, it is not compatible with [open-source FingerprintJS](https://github.com/fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs).** You can learn more about the difference between FingerprintJS Pro and open-source FingerprintJS in the [official documentation](https://dev.fingerprintjs.com/docs/pro-vs-open-source).

## Table of contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Getting started](#getting-started)
- [Documentation](#documentation)
- [Support and feedback](#support-and-feedback)
- [License](#license)

## Installation

Using [npm](https://npmjs.org):

```sh
npm install @fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react
```

Using [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com):

```sh
yarn add @fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react
```

## Getting started

In order to identify visitors, you'll need a FingerprintJS Pro account (you can [sign up for free](https://dashboard.fingerprintjs.com/signup/)).
You can learn more about API keys in the [official FingerprintJS Pro documentation](https://dev.fingerprintjs.com/docs/quick-start-guide).

1. Wrap your application (or component) in FpjsProvider. You can specify multiple configuration options. \
   Set a region if you have chosen a non-global region during registration. Please refer to the [Regions page](https://dev.fingerprintjs.com/docs/regions).
  
```jsx
// src/index.js
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import { FpjsProvider } from '@fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react';
import App from './App';

ReactDOM.render(
  <FpjsProvider
    loadOptions = {{
      apiKey: 'your-fpjs-public-api-key'
    }}
  >
    <App />
  </FpjsProvider>,
  document.getElementById('app')
);
```

2. Use the `useVisitorData` hook in your components to perform visitor identification and get the data. 

```jsx
// src/App.js
import React from 'react';
import { useVisitorData } from '@fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react'

function App() {
  const {
    isLoading,
    error,
    data,
  } = useVisitorData();

  if (isLoading) {
    return <div>Loading...</div>;
  }
  if (error) {
    return <div>An error occured: {error.message}</div>;
  }

  if (data) {
    // perform some logic based on the visitor data
    return (
      <div>
        Welcome {data.visitorFound ? 'back' : ''}!
      </div>
    );
  } else {
    return null;
  }
}

export default App;
```

The `useVisitorData` hook also returns a `getData` method which can make an API call on your command. 

```jsx
// src/App.js
import React, { useState } from 'react';
import { useVisitorData } from '@fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react'

function App() {
  const {
    isLoading,
    error,
    getData,
  } = useVisitorData({tag: 'subscription-form'}, { immediate: false });
  const [email, setEmail] = useState('')

  if (isLoading) {
    return <div>Loading...</div>;
  }
  if (error) {
    return <div>An error occured: {error.message}</div>;
  }

  return (
    <div>
      <form
        onSubmit={(e) => {
          e.preventDefault()
          getData().then((data) => {
            if (data) {
              // do something with the visitor data
              // for example, append visitor data to the form data to send to your server
              console.log(data)
            }
          })
        }}
      >
        <label htmlFor='email'>Email:</label>
        <input
          id='email'
          type='email'
          name='email'
          required
          value={email}
          onChange={(e) => setEmail(e.currentTarget.value)}
        />
        <button type='submit'>Subscribe</button>
      </form>
    </div>
  );
}

export default App;
```

See the full code example in the [examples folder](https://github.com/fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react/tree/main/examples/spa).

## Caching strategy
:warning: **WARNING** If you use data from `extendedResult`, please pay additional attention to caching strategy

FingerprintJS Pro uses API calls as the basis for billing. Our [best practices](https://dev.fingerprintjs.com/docs/caching-visitor-information) strongly recommend using cache for saving your money. Library use `SessionStorage` cache strategy by default.

But if you need some [`extendedResult`](https://dev.fingerprintjs.com/docs/js-agent#extendedresult) fields that can change, like `ip` or `lastSeenAt` it is better to pass `ignoreCache=true` inside [`getData`](#returned-object) function.

## Documentation

This library uses [FingerprintJS Pro agent](https://fingerprintjs.com/github/) internally. The documentation for the FingerprintJS Pro agent is available on https://dev.fingerprintjs.com/docs.

### FpjsProvider props
`loadOptions: FingerprintJS.LoadOptions`

Options for the FingerprintJS JS Pro agent `load()` method. Options follow [agent's initialisation properties](https://dev.fingerprintjs.com/docs/js-agent#agent-initialization).

`cacheLocation?: CacheLocation`

Defines which built-in cache mechanism the client should use. Caching options follow properties defined in [fingerprintjs-pro-spa repository](https://github.com/fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-spa#caching).

`cache?: ICache`

Custom cache implementation. Takes precedence over the `cacheLocation` property. Caching options follow properties defined in [fingerprintjs-pro-spa repository](https://github.com/fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-spa#caching).

`cacheTimeInSeconds?: number`

Duration in seconds for which data is stored in the cache. Cannot exceed 86_400 (24h) because caching data for longer than 24 hours can negatively affect identification accuracy. Caching options follow properties defined in [fingerprintjs-pro-spa repository](https://github.com/fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-spa#caching).

`cachePrefix?: string`

Custom prefix for localStorage and sessionStorage cache keys. Will be ignored if the `cache` is provided. Caching options follow properties defined in [fingerprintjs-pro-spa repository](https://github.com/fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-spa#caching).

### Hooks
`useVisitorData(getOptions, config)`

`useVisitorData` hook performs identification requests with the FingerprintJS Pro API. The returned object contains information about loading status, errors, and [visitor](https://dev.fingerprintjs.com/docs/js-agent#extendedresultac).

#### Params
- `getOptions: GetOptions<TExtended>` parameter follows parameters of the FingerprintJS Pro's [`get` function](https://dev.fingerprintjs.com/docs/js-agent#parameters-reference).
- `config: UseVisitorDataConfig`'s property `immediate` determines whether the `getData()` method will be called immediately after the hook mounts or not.

#### Returned object
- `getData: (ignoreCache: boolean) => Promise<VisitorData>` Performs identification request to server and returns visitors data. When it is called, a FingerprintJS server will send a [webhook request](https://dev.fingerprintjs.com/docs/webhooks) to your server.
- `isLoading: boolean` Indicates `getData` request status
- `data: VisitorData` Contains visitors data requested after after `getData()` call
- `error: Error` Error information in case of failed request


## Support and feedback
For support or to provide feedback, please [raise an issue on our issue tracker](https://github.com/fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react/issues). If you require private support, please email us at oss-support@fingerprintjs.com. If you'd like to have a similar React wrapper for the [open-source FingerprintJS](https://github.com/fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs), consider [raising an issue in our issue tracker](https://github.com/fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react/issues).


## License

This project is licensed under the MIT license. See the [LICENSE](https://github.com/fingerprintjs/fingerprintjs-pro-react/blob/master/LICENSE) file for more info.
